One twenty four was spiteful.
Full of a baby's venom.
The women in the house knew it and so did the children.
For years each put up with the spite in his own way, but by eighteen seventy three Seth and her daughter Denver were its only victims.
The grandmother, Baby Suggs, was dead, and the sons, Howard and Bug lar, had run away by the time they were thirteen years old- as soon as merely looking in a mirror shattered it (that was the signal for Bug lar); as soon as two tiny hand prints appeared in the cake (that was it for Howard).
Neither boy waited to see more; another kettle full of chick peas smoking in a heap on the floor; soda crackers crumbled and strewn in a line next to the door sill.
Nor did they wait for one of the relief periods: the weeks, months even, when nothing was disturbed.
No.
Each one fled at once- the moment the house committed what was for him the one insult not to be borne or witnessed a second time.
Within two months, in the dead of winter, leaving their grandmother, Baby Suggs; Seth, their mother; and their little sister, Denver, all by themselves in the gray and white house on Blue stone Road.
It didn't have a number then, because Cincinnati didn't stretch that far.
In fact, Ohio had been calling itself a state only seventy years when first one brother and then the next stuffed quilt packing into his hat, snatched up his shoes, and crept away from the lively spite the house felt for them.
Baby Suggs didn't even raise her head.
From her sick bed she heard them go but that wasn't the reason she lay still.
It was a wonder to her that her grandsons had taken so long to realize that every house wasn't like the one on Blue stone Road.
Suspended between the nastiness of life and the meanness of the dead, she couldn't get interested in leaving life or living it, let alone the fright of two creeping-off boys.
Her past had been like her present- intolerable- and since she knew death was anything but forget fullness, she used the little energy left her for pondering color.
"Bring a little lavender in, if you got any.
Pink, if you don't."
And Sethe would oblige her with anything from fabric to her own tongue.