Nuns go by as quiet as lust, and drunken men and sober eyes sing in the lobby of the Greek hotel.
Rosemary Villanucci, our next-door friend who lives above her father’s cafe, sits in a nineteen thirty nine Buick eating bread and butter.
She rolls down the window to tell my sister Frida and me that we can’t come in.
We stare at her, wanting her bread, but more than that wanting to poke the arrogance out of her eyes and smash the pride of ownership that curls her chewing mouth.
When she comes out of the car we will beat her up, make red marks on her white skin, and she will cry and ask us do we want her to pull her pants down.
We will say no.
We don’t know what we should feel or do if she does, but whenever she asks us, we know she is offering us something precious and that our own pride must be asserted by refusing to accept.
School has started, and Frida and I get new brown stockings and cod-liver oil.
Grown-ups talk in tired, edgy voices about Zick Coal Company and take us along in the evening to the railroad tracks where we fill burlap sacks with the tiny pieces of coal lying about.
Later we walk home, glancing back to see the great car loads of slag being dumped, red hot and smoking, into the ravine that skirts the steel mill.
The dying fire lights the sky with a dull orange glow.
Frida and I lag behind, staring at the patch of color surrounded by black.
It is impossible not to feel a shiver when our feet leave the gravel path and sink into the dead grass in the field.
Our house is old, cold, and green.
At night a kerosene lamp lights one large room.
The others are braced in darkness, peopled by roaches and mice. Adults do not talk to us—they give us directions.
They issue orders without providing information.
When we trip and fall down they glance at us; if we cut or bruise ourselves, they ask us are we crazy. When we catch colds, they shake their heads in disgust at our lack of consideration.
How, they ask us, do you expect anybody to get anything done if you all are sick?
We cannot answer them.