IN THE AUTUMN OF nineteen seventy one a man used to come to our house, bearing confections in his pocket and hopes of ascertaining the life or death of his family.
His name was Mr. Per zada, and he came from Da ka, now the capital of Bangladesh, but then a part of Pakistan.
That year Pakistan was engaged in civil war.
The eastern frontier, where Da ka was located, was fighting for autonomy from the ruling regime in the west.
In March, Dacca had been invaded, torched, and shelled by the Pakistani army.
Teachers were dragged onto streets and shot, women dragged into barracks and raped.
By the end of the summer, three hundred thousand people were said to have died.
In da ka Mr. Per zada had a three-story home, a lecture ship in botany at the university, a wife of twenty years, and seven daughters between the ages of six and sixteen whose names all began with the letter A.
Their mother’s idea, he explained one day, producing from his wallet a black-and-white picture of seven girls at a picnic, their braids tied with ribbons, sitting cross-legged in a row, eating chicken curry off of banana leaves. 
How am I to distinguish? 
Aye e sha, A mira, A mina, Aziz a, you see the difficulty.
Each week Mister Per zada wrote letters to his wife, and sent comic books to each of his seven daughters, but the postal system, along with most everything else in da ka, had collapsed, and he had not heard word of them in over six months.
Mister Per zada, meanwhile, was in America for the year, for he had been awarded a grant from the government of Pakistan to study the foliage of New England.
In spring and summer he had gathered data in Vermont and Maine, and in autumn he moved to a university north of Boston, where we lived, to write a short book about his discoveries.
The grant was a great honor, but when converted into dollars it was not generous.
As a result, Mister Per zada lived in a room in a graduate dormitory, and did not own a proper stove or a television set.
And so he came to our house to eat dinner and watch the evening news.
At first I knew nothing of the reason for his visits.
I was ten years old, and was not surprised that my parents, who were from India, and had a number of Indian acquaintances at the university, should ask Mister Per zada to share our meals.
It was a small campus, with narrow brick walkways and white pillared buildings, located on the fringes of what seemed to be an even smaller town.