THE NOTICE INFORMED THEM that it was a temporary matter: for five days their electricity would be cut off for one hour, beginning at eight P M
A line had gone down in the last snowstorm, and the repairmen were going to take advantage of the milder evenings to set it right.
The work would affect only the houses on the quiet tree-lined street, within walking distance of a row of brick-faced stores and a trolley stop, where Soba and Shu kumar had lived for three years.
It’s good of them to warn us, Soba conceded after reading the notice aloud, more for her own benefit than Shu kumar.
She let the strap of her leather satchel, plump with files, slip from her shoulders, and left it in the hallway as she walked into the kitchen.
She wore a navy blue pop in raincoat over gray sweat pants and white sneakers, looking, at thirty-three, like the type of woman she’d once claimed she would never resemble.
She’d come from the gym.
Her cranberry lipstick was visible only on the outer reaches of her mouth, and her eyeliner had left charcoal patches beneath her lower lashes.
She used to look this way sometimes, Shu kumar thought, on mornings after a party or a night at a bar, when she’d been too lazy to wash her face, too eager to collapse into his arms.
She dropped a sheaf of mail on the table without a glance.
Her eyes were still fixed on the notice in her other hand. 
But they should do this sort of thing during the day.
When I’m here, you mean, Shu kumar said.
He put a glass lid on a pot of lamb, adjusting it so only the slightest bit of steam could escape.
Since January he’d been working at home, trying to complete the final chapters of his dissertation on agrarian revolts in India.
When do the repairs start?
It says March nineteenth.
Is today the nineteenth?
Soba walked over to the framed cork board that hung on the wall by the fridge, bare except for a calendar of William Morris wallpaper patterns.
She looked at it as if for the first time, studying the wallpaper pattern carefully on the top half before allowing her eyes to fall to the numbered grid on the bottom.