In that place, where they tore the nightshade and blackberry patches from their roots to make room for the Medallion City Golf Course, there was once a neighborhood.
It stood in the hills above the valley town of Medallion and spread all the way to the river.
It is called the suburbs now, but when black people lived there it was called the Bottom.
One road, shaded by beaches, oaks, maples and chestnuts, connected it to the valley.
The beaches are gone now, and so are the pear trees where children sat and yelled down through the blossoms to passersby.
Generous funds have been allotted to level the stripped and faded buildings that clutter the road from Medallion up to the golf course.
They are going to raze the Time and a Half Pool Hall, where feet in long tan shoes once pointed down from chair rungs.
A steel ball will knock to dust Irene's Palace of Cosmetology, where women used to lean their heads back on sink trays and doze while Irene lathered Nu Nile into their hair.
Men in khaki work clothes will pry loose the slats of Reba Grill, where the owner cooked in her hat because she couldn't remember the ingredients without it.
There will be nothing left of the Bottom (the foot bridge that crossed the river is already gone), but perhaps it is just as well, since it wasn't a town anyway:
just a neighborhood where on quiet days people in valley houses could hear singing sometimes, banjo sometimes, and, if a valley man happened to have business up in those hills- collecting rent or insurance payments- he might see a dark woman in a flowered dress doing a bit of cake walk, a bit of black bottom, a bit of "messing around" to the lively notes of a mouth organ.
Her bare feet would raise the saffron dust that floated down on the coveralls and onion-split shoes of the man breathing music in and out of his harmonica.
The black people watching her would laugh and rub their knees, and it would be easy for the valley man to hear the laughter and not notice the adult pain that rested somewhere under the eyelids, somewhere under their head rags and soft felt hats, somewhere in the palm of the hand, somewhere behind the frayed lapels, somewhere in the sinew curve.
He'd have to stand in the back of Greater Saint Matthew's and let the tenor's voice dress him in silk, or touch the hands of the spoon carvers (who had not worked in eight years) and let the fingers that danced on wood kiss his skin.
Otherwise the pain would escape him even though the laughter was part of the pain.
A shucking, knee-slapping, wet-eyed laughter that could even describe and explain how they came to be where they were.
A joke.
A nigger joke.
That was the way it got started.
Not the town, of course, but that part of town where the Negroes lived, the part they called the Bottom in spite of the fact that it was up in the hills.