In this paper, the problem of pedestrian egress under different geometries is studied by means of two numerical models. The length of the bottleneck after the exit and the distance of the exit to the lateral wall of a squared room are investigated. Both models show that an increase in the bottleneck length increases the evacuation time by more than 20 percent, for any exit position. Hence, a bottleneck length tending to zero is the best choice. On the contrary, the results of moving the exit closer to the lateral wall are different in both models and, thus, its convenience cannot be stated. To unveil whether this layout modification is favorable, experimental data are required. Moreover, the discrepancy between models indicates that they should be validated considering several scenarios. The characterization of pedestrian flow through doors and bottlenecks is a key feature for designing and dimensioning pedestrian facilities. These observables were extensively studied with field observations, experiments and simulations. However, a systematic study of the influence of bottleneck length and position is missing. Besides, the terms “door” and “bottleneck” are used sometimes as synonyms and should be better specified. As a starting point, we will define a bottleneck. Considering the flow of pedestrians with a preferred direction of motion (for instance, in an open space, a room or a corridor), we will call “bottleneck” to any geometrical reduction that impedes the pedestrians’ flow and that it is orientated in the perpendicular direction of this flow, as shown in Fig 1. The geometry of a simple bottleneck can be characterized by its width and its length. From this definition, it is natural to see that a door (or an opening) is a particular case of a bottleneck whose length tends to zero. The pedestrian flow rate, J, is defined as the number of persons going out during a certain time lapse. For the egress from a facility where N pedestrians are initially inside, the time lapse considered could be the evacuation time. A derived quantity, the specific flow rate, is defined as the flow per unit length of the perpendicular cross section of the way out. Legal codes and engineering tables provide values for the specific flow rate, usually ranging between 1 and 1 see, for instance. Usually, these specifications only consider the width of the exit, but do not specify, which is assumed to be as small as possible. In contrast, some experimental papers specify the value of the bottleneck length for which the flow rate is obtained. Hoogendoorn and Damen studied the influence of the bottleneck width on the pedestrian flow and found values ranging. In all cases, the bottleneck length was kept constant at some value. Kretz et al reported specific flows ranging between 1 and 2 for N = 100 persons exiting through doors of widths between 40 and 140 m, keeping the value of the bottleneck length at 4 m. Seyfried and collaborators found both of them for N = 60 pedestrians with 2. In the work of Liao et al , the flow for different bottleneck widths was also studied. They remarked that the flow rate grows linearly with b (thus, J is constant). In that paper, the specific flow was computed considering the total number of pedestrians and the total evacuation time. Alternatively, the steady-state specific flow was calculated only during an intermediate period of time in which the flow was nearly steady, finding J. Furthermore, the bottleneck length was kept constant at 1 m. In the above-referenced papers, the experiments were done by varying the width b and reporting the length, which was kept constant. However, there are few papers where the influence of the bottleneck length is studied. Liao et al presented experimental results for 1; 1; and 4, obtaining J = 2; 2; and 1, respectively, and for steady-state conditions, i e, measured only for the stationary part of the evacuation. The first experiments that considered different bottleneck lengths keeping the other parameters constant were the ones presented in refs 11 and 12. Here, the results of three evacuation drills with N = 180 soldiers, b = 1 m and LB = 6; 2; 4 m were reported. The corresponding values of the pedestrian flow rate J were J = 3; 2; 1. The flow rate, in this case, was calculated from the pedestrian 1 to 120 (non-stationary state). From these data, it can be seen that a small bottleneck length leads to an improvement of about 20 percent with respect to large bottlenecks and that, moreover, it seems to be the same for LB = 2 m and LB = 4 m. The improvement of the flow for a short bottleneck length is expected because doors do not impose any restriction on the movement once the door is passed, generating a reduction of the density and thus gaining speed. On the other hand, bottlenecks reduce the available space, increasing the density and reducing the velocity, which could result in some limitations to the motion upstream the constriction. In order to confirm these results and get a deeper understanding of how LB influences the evacuation time, in the present paper we propose studying this variation systematically by means of numerical simulations. Moreover, we point out that another geometrical parameter can influence the evacuation time, that is, the distance of the bottleneck from its closest wall, as shown in Fig 1. In this regard, we can refer to the work of Nagai et al who performed evacuation drills in from the center of the particle pi , also having DRi as its radius, and in the direction of the desired velocity. The respect distance is parametrized for each particle depending on its own radius, RF being the respect factor. While any other pedestrian is inside this respect area, the desired velocity of pedestrians is set equal to zero. For further details and benefits of this modification to the SFM, we refer the reader to Ref 18. This model was proposed by Baglietto and Parisi and it is useful for modeling pedestrian flows in normal conditions. It consists of a set of rules defining automata particles that can move on the real plane. It has the benefit of being computationally faster than force-based models and it can reproduce very well specific flow rates and fundamental diagrams of different experiments reported in the bibliography by only changing the parameters related to the particle radii. The model consists of particles of variable radii. Each radius can range between rmin and rmax in a continuous way. The minimum radii are associated with the maximum physical compressibility of the pedestrian and the maximum radii are related to the necessary personal space needed for taking normal steps under low density conditions. The particle has a desired velocity pointing at the desired target location and its magnitude is a function of the particle radius. When a particle enters in contact with a boundary, obstacle or another particle, an escape velocity appears, having a fixed magnitude and opposite direction to the interaction. Then, the particle radius instantaneously collapses to are min. The relation between the radius and the desired speed must fulfill 0 and max with a functional form given by Eq 6, where max is the desired speed at which a pedestrian would walk in an open and free space and b is a constant. When a particle is free of contact with any other particle or boundary, its radius increases in each time step according to, where the constant t is set to t = 5 s and t is the time step for computing the evolution of the system. Once r reaches max, it stops increasing. Finally, in each iteration, the positions of particles are updated by the equation. We present the results of simulations with two different models analyzing variations of the geometrical parameters LB and dw (see Fig 1) and looking at the total evacuation time and the specific flow patterns inside the room. In the subsections, the exit width is fixed at b = 2 m, the initial number of pedestrians is N = 200, which are uniformly distributed inside a squared room of 20 by 20 m; this configuration generates an initial density. The pedestrians’ behavior corresponds to normal conditions (competitive behavior with pushing and shoving are excluded in the present paper). The simulated pedestrian’s plan simply consists of moving toward the nearest point of a segment placed centered and parallel to the exit line (with a size 2 m shorter than the exit width), and then toward a second target placed at a long distance location beyond the end of the bottleneck. In Fig 2, the geometry and typical configurations of simulated pedestrians are shown for the two models used. First, we consider simulations with the social force model with a respect area. The parameters used are uniformly distributed in the following ranges. The left column displays two configurations of the system at different times for the simulations performed with the social force model with respect area. For the same times, the corresponding configurations of the system simulated with the contractile particle model are shown on the right column. It is worth noting that because we are simulating normal conditions, the low values of the desired velocity (and the respect mechanism) lead to the absence of contact interaction as can be seen in Fig 2, bottom-left panel. This may suggest that under the present conditions the contact term of the respect has no influence on the results. The total evacuation times as a function of bottleneck length are displayed in Fig 3 for three different values of dw. Each condition (each point in the figure) was simulated ten times with initial positions uniformly distributed inside the room. As expected, the evacuation time increases with increasing values of LB, confirming that imposing long boundaries after the exit has a negative influence on the evacuation performance.