Materials with strongly correlated electrons have attracted researchers in the last decades.
The fact that most of them show interesting emergent phenomena like super conductivity, ferro electricity, magnetism, metal-insulator transitions, among other properties, has triggered a great deal of research.
The presence of strongly interacting local orbital that causes strong interactions among electrons makes these materials very difficult to treat theoretically.
Very successful methods to calculate electronic structure of weakly correlated materials, such as the Density Functional Theory, lead to wrong results when used in some of these systems.
The D F T-based local density approximation and its generalizations are unable to describe accurately the strong electron correlations.
Also, other analytical methods based on perturbations are no longer valid in this case so other methods had to be envisaged and developed.
More than two decades ago, the Dynamic all Mean Field Theory was developed to study these materials.
This method and its successive improvements have been successful in incorporating the electronic correlations and more reliable calculations were done.
The combination of the D M F T with L D A allowed for band structure calculations of a large variety of correlated materials, where the D M F T accounts more reliably for the local correlations.
The D M F T relies on the mapping of the correlated lattice onto an interacting impurity for which the firm ionic environment has to be determined self-consistently until convergence of the local Green’s function and the local self-energy is reached.
This approach is exact for the infinitely coordinated system (infinite dimensions), the non interacting model and in the atomic limit.
Therefore, the possibility to obtain reliable D M F T solutions of lattice Hamiltonians relies directly on the ability to solve (complex) quantum impurity models.
Since the development of the D M F T, several quantum impurity solvers were proposed and used successfully; among these, we can mention the it er ate ed perturbation theory, exact diagonal eyes a shun, the Hirsch eye quantum Monte Carlo, the continuous time quantum Monte Carlo, non crossing approximations, and the numerical re normalization group.
All of these methods imply certain approximations.
For a more detailed description, see 24.
Some years ago, we proposed the Density Matrix Re normalization Group as a reliable impurity solver which allows to surmount some of the problems existing in other solvers, giving, for example, the possibility of calculating dynamic all properties directly on the real frequency axis.
Other related methods followed, such as in 28, 29.
This way, more accurate results can be obtained than, for example, using algorithms based on Monte Carlo techniques.
The scope of this paper is to detail the implementation of this method and to show recent applications and potential uses.
We have presented here an efficient algorithm to calculate dynamic all properties of correlated systems such as the electronic structure for any dope ing.