Inside any modern time-keeping device, the principal component is an oscillator which autonomously generates a stationary periodic signal with a well defined frequency.
The only external input to the system is the power needed to sustain the oscillations.
In devices based on mechanical oscillators –which comprise essentially all present-day clocks, with the exception of the atomic kind–, sustained periodic motion is achieved by forcing the oscillator with a conditioned version of the signal generated by the oscillator itself.
If this re injected force is in-phase with the oscillation velocity, the resonant response is maximal, thus optimize ing power consumption during the process of signal conditioning.
Purely mechanical devices employed this feedback scheme already in the Middle Ages.
In fact, the escapement mechanism was routinely used in clock building since the thirteenth century.
In modern clocks, oscillators are built from synthetic quartz crystals and feedback is implemented electronically.
At the micro- and nano scale, quartz crystals are expected to be replaced by simpler mechanical oscillators such as tiny vibrating silica beams, which are easily built during circuit printing and can be actuated by very small electric fields.
In a series of recent experiments on micro mechanical oscillators, it has been shown that self sustained oscillations can be achieved with a feedback force proportional to the oscillation velocity.
Since a purely linear mechanical system cannot display stable periodic motion, this kind of feedback force must necessarily be compensated by some non linear contribution from the oscillator dynamics itself.
In the experiments, this balance turned out to come from the damping force, which was proportional to the velocity but showed a non linear dependence on the oscillation amplitude.
In the present paper, we analyze a model for self sustained periodic motion in a mechanical oscillator subjected to a feedback force proportional to the velocity, and nonlinear amplitude-dependent terms both in damping and in the restoring force.
Emphasis is put on the effects of time delays in the feedback circuit, which modify the phase shift between the feedback force and the velocity.
It is shown that these delays affect the response of the oscillator, to the point that stable periodic motion can even be suppressed.
The model is studied analytically within suitable approximations, and the results are compared with numerical solutions to the equation of motion.
We have analyzed the dynamics of a mechanical oscillator whose periodic motion is sustained by a feedback force proportional to the oscillation velocity.
The key ingredient that makes oscillations stable is a nonlinear dependence of damping with the oscillation amplitude, such that energy dissipation increases or decreases when the amplitude respectively grows or drops.
This kind of non linear itty, together with a cubic component in the restoring force, has been experimentally observed to occur in C C beam micro mechanical oscillators, which can therefore exhibit self-sustained motion under the action of linear velocity feedback.
Our emphasis was put on the effect of a time delay in the feedback force, assumed to originate in the electric circuit that reads, conditions, and re injects the oscillation signal.
The most significant consequence of this ingredient is that oscillation can be suppressed if the delay is large enough.