Fractal theory was initially proposed by Mantle brought and extensively developed up to these days.
Multi fractal theory can be seen as an extension of fractal formalism, centered in sub sets with different scaling behavior coexisting simultaneously.
Since its introduction, multi fractal analysis has been developed and applied in a wide range of disciplines, like medicine, neuroscience, economy, ecology and theoretical physics.
Many methods have been proposed for approximating multi fractal spectra.
A summary of the most important ones can be found in 15. Particularly, multi fractal analysis has been used via different formalism to extract information from images.
In a series of three articles, Arnold et al develop a multi fractal analysis method for images based on wave let coefficients.
Their approach leads to a multi fractal spectra expressed in terms of Holder exponent for functions, a solid way of studying singular itty.
However, the present work leads to using Holder exponent for measures.
Despite the fact that there are theoretical connections between those spectra, the passage from one to the other is not straight forward, making any comparison of numerical results quite complicated.
Nevertheless, it is interesting to see how those singular itty spectra are useful for characterizing captures with diverse textures.
In 16, the authors propose performing a multi fractal analysis of images through the so called wave let transform modulus maxima method and testing it in random self affine surfaces.
In 17, this group applies the proposed formalism to multi fractal synthetic images simulating cloud structures, while in 18, they utilize it on Land sat images with cloud cover.
In a similar line, Wend et al present the use of wave let leaders for studying regularity and obtaining the multi fractal spectra of images with different textures.
In a classical article, Levy Veil and Mino characterize different types of 2 D singular itty via Holder exponents for the sum measure and various capacities.
Once the response of these exponents to the singular itty is studied, the authors use them to obtain the edges in both, synthetic and real images.
Multi fractal analysis based on measures has also been applied to medical images.
Nilson studies the possibility of using this methodology to distinguish healthy tissue from a potentially tumoral one based on the differences in the width of the corresponding spectra.
They use particular parameters of multi fractal analysis, like some generalized dimensions or the range of Holder exponents, for classifying the primary cancer in cases of metastasis bone disease.
Milan et al also pay attention to several selected parameters estimated from multi fractal spectra and use them together with a log Levy stable model for characterizing soil surface moisture distributions.
In geo physics, they characterize the dynamics of preferential water flow in soils and porous media with some particular parameters of multi fractal spectra of M R I data.