Ionization of water molecules is of interest in many domains such as radio chemistry and radio biology, as living cells are composed mostly by water.
In particular, ionization of water molecules was studied in several experimental and theoretical works.
The theoretical treatment of these reactions is rather involved as the nuclear degrees of freedom of the water molecule must be taken into account as well as a proper treatment of the continuum states in the final channel of the reaction. To circumvent these inconveniences, elaborated methods were developed to obtain cross sections for photo ionization of water, disregarding the vibration all and or the rotational molecular structure.
For instance, Steiner studied the electronic transitions within the framework of the Density Functional Theory with two different exchange correlation potentials: V W N and L B 94.
The first is the most common para met tis a shun within the Local Density Approximation, whereas the second is a model potential with the correct a sim tot tic behavior at large distances, that is, it decays like negative 1 over r.
Moreover, they considered the ground-state configuration where all electrons are kept in the calculation and the transition-state configuration where half an electron is removed from the ionize orbital.
The former configuration is computational lee less C P U time consuming because the ionization of all orbital can be obtained with the same potential, whereas in the latter, the potential depends on the orbital which is ionize and thus continuum states must be calculated separately for each state.
They obtain cross sections up to approximately 70 e V.
In a recent work in which Dyson orbital are used for the bound states, the final continuum states are represented by cool ohm waves describing the interaction between the active electron and the residual target.
This representation is usual in high energy methods.
The vibration all structure is considered through the Frank Code on approximation.
Besides, they employ partial wave expansions to obtain matrix transition elements.
The interest was mostly the ob tent shun of cross sections near threshold of the reactions, i e, at low incident energies.
Because of the partial wave expansions, it is expected that the above mentioned models become computation ally cumbersome at higher photon energies.
However, cross sections at these energies are needed to contrast with experiments and to back research on matter irradiation and related fields.
Consequently, other strategies must be envisaged to obtain observables of the reaction at high impact energies.
Therefore, we adopt here a different approach and develop a Cool ohm Continuum model valid at intermediate and high impact energies.
We avoid the use of the Lipman Swinger equation or any partial wave technique that may complicate the retention of observables at high photon energies.
At first, we consider that at high enough impact energies, we can simplify the problem by assuming that the reaction occurs in a lapse much smaller than the typical vibration all and rotational times.
Then, we assume that the molecule is frozen at the equilibrium configuration during the collision time.