The measurement and control of light produced by quantum systems have been the focus of interest of the cavity quantum electro dynamics.
Specially, the emission of light powered by solid-state devices coupled to nano cavities is an extensive area of research due to its promising technological applications, such as infrared and low-threshold lasers, single and entangled photon sources, as well as various applications in quantum crypt o graph and quantum information theory.
Experiments with semiconductor quantum dots embedded in micro cavities have revealed a plethora of quantum effects and offer desirable properties for harnessing coherent quantum phenomena at the single photon level.
For example, the Per cell enhancement, photon anti bunching, vacuum Rabbi splitting and strong light matter coupling.
These and many other quantum phenomena are being confirmed experimentally by observing the power spectra density of the light emitted by the quantum-dot cavity systems.
Thus, the P S D, or the so-called emission spectrum of the system, becomes the only relevant information that allows to study the properties of the light via measurements of correlation functions, as it is stated by the Wiener hint chime theorem.
In order to compute the emission spectrum of the Q D - cavity systems in the framework of open quantum systems, different approaches have been elaborated from the theoretical point of view.
For example, the method of thermo dynamic Greens functions has been applied to the determination of the susceptibility and absorption spectrum of atomic systems embedded in nano cavities, the time-resolved photo-luminescence approach whose application allows to determine the emission spectrum when an additional subsystem is considered, the so-called the photon reservoir.
These theoretical approaches are based on several approximations and therefore, they have their own limitations when they are considered in more general scenarios.
In consequence, these methods are not used extensively.
Frequently, the emission spectrum of Q D - cavity systems is computed through the Quantum Regression Theorem, since it relates the evolution of mean values of observables and the two-time correlation functions.
It is worth mentioning that the Q R T approach can be difficult to implement in a computer program because computational complexity increases significantly as the number of Q D or modes inside the cavity are being considered; more precisely, the dimensional itty associated with the Hill bert space is large.
In general, the Q R T approach is time-consuming because it is required to solve a large system of coupled differential equations and numerical instabilities that can arise.
Moreover, theoretical complications related to dynamics of the operators involved can appear, as we will point out in the next section.
In spite of this, the Q R T approach is widely used in theoretical works, for example, in studies about photo luminescence spectra of coupled light-matter systems in micro cavities in the presence of a continuous and incoherent pumping.
Also, in studies considering the relation between dynamic all regimes and entanglement in Q D - cavity systems.
In the past, the Greens functions technique was successfully applied for calculating the emission spectrum for a very simple quantum system, e g, the micro maker.
Nevertheless, this approach has not been widely noticed in many significant situations in open quantum systems.
The purpose of this work is to provide a simple and efficient numerical method based on the G F T in order to overcome the inherent difficulties associated with the direct application of the Q R T approach by solving the dynamics of the system in the frequency domain directly.
This paper is structured as follows: the theoretical background of the Q R T as well as the G F T are presented in section 2.