Numerous studies have investigated the flow of granular materials (such as glass beads, aggregates or minerals, among others) through hoppers of various geometries.
Commonly, the silo is initially filled with the granular material at a given height.
Then, the outlet of the silo is opened and the mass flow rate is recorded as a function of time.
These experiments provide useful information on the relation between the flow rate and different geometrical and physical properties of the system, such as the size and shape of the particles and the outlet, the presence of friction forces and density fluctuations.
Empirically, the flow rate is determined by the known Bever lose equation which depends, among other variables, on the apparent density in the immediate neighborhood of the outlet region of the silo.
Furthermore, in the derivation of the Bev er lose equation, it is assumed that the region primarily affected by the discharge is near the outlet and has an effective diameter of the order of the width of it, sometimes referred to as Bev er lose diameter.
Simulations have provided details about the granular flow that are not accessible to experiments such as the influence of friction all parameters between particles, particle shape, stress chains and the statistics of the arches formed during a jamming process.
When the size of the flowing particles is in the order of the width of the aperture, jamming can take place, and the particles stop flowing unless additional energy is provided to the system.
Many practical problems are caused by jamming at the outlet of hoppers used in production lines, where it is necessary to maintain a constant flow of material.
Analogous problems occur in the storage of raw materials in silos, especially after a certain period of accumulation or under manipulation operations that may cause a change in the packing fraction.
Thus, when it is necessary to empty the silo, the material does not flow, either due to the presence of unwanted moisture or because of the compact shun of grains sealing the outlet.
These problems are caused by particle arches that form at the outlet.
Authors in Ref 9 report data suggesting temporal oscillations in the packing fraction near the outlet.
Those oscillations had a frequency around 2 hertz.
This result is important because it is directly related to the likelihood of jamming in the silo.
Other authors performed flow experiments using metal disks in a two dimensional hopper in order to study the statistical properties of the arches forming at the outlet.
Authors in Ref 7 found experimentally a linear variation for the number of particles forming an arch with the outlet size in a 2 D silo.
There are many works concerning the study of packing density in flowing granular materials out of a hopper.
In particular, those dealing with the presence of density waves and density fluctuations in the bulk of the silo.
Others focus on the density distribution during discharge and analyze the change of the density between the stagnant zone and the flowing zone.