The study of topological quantum phases of matter has become an area of great interest in present day condensed matter physics.
A topological phase is a quantum phase of matter which cannot be characterized by a local order parameter, and thus falls beyond the Land ow paradigm.
In particular, topological insulators, i e, materials which are insulating in the bulk but support topological lee protected gap less states at the edges, were first proposed theoretically for two and three dimensional systems with time reversal symmetry, and soon after found in experiments on quantum wells, generating a lot of excitement and subsequent research.
The electronic structure of a topological insulator cannot be smoothly connected to that of a trivial insulator, a fact that is mathematically expressed in the existence of a non zero topological invariant, an integer number quantifying the non-local topological order in the ground state.
A complete classification based on the dimensional it e and underlying symmetry has been achieved in the form of a periodic table of topological insulators.
Nevertheless, this classification refers only to the gap phases of non interacting ferm ions, and leaves open the problem of characterizing and classifying strongly interacting topological insulators.
This is a very important open question in modern condensed matter physics
Recently, zero et al proposed a new kind of topological insulator: the topological Kondo insulator, which combines features of both non interacting topological insulators and the well known Kondo insulators, a special class of heavy ferm ion system with an insulating gap strongly re normalized by interactions.
Within a mean field picture, T K I can be understood as a strongly re normalized f electron band lying close to the Fermi level, and hybridize ing with the conduction electron d bands.
At half filling, an insulating state appears due to the opening of a low temperature hybridize a shun gap at the Fermi energy induced by interactions.
Due to the opposite parities of the states being hybridize, a topological lee non trivial ground state emerges, characterized by an insulating gap in the bulk and conducting Deer ack states at the surface.
At present, T K I materials, among which sam ari um hex a bore ride is the best known example, are under intense investigation both theoretically and experimentally.
From a theoretical point of view, T K I are interesting systems arising from the interplay between strong interactions and topology.
Although the large N mean field approach was successful in describing qualitatively heavy ferm ion systems and T K Is in particular, it would be desirable to understand better how T K I emerge.
In order to shed more light into this question, in a recent work Alexandrov and Coleman proposed a one dimensional model for a topological Kondo insulator, the p wave Kondo eisenberg model.
Such a model consists of a chain of spin half magnetic impurities interacting with a half filled one dimensional electron gas through a Kondo exchange.
Using a standard mean field description, which expresses the original interacting problem as an effectively non interacting one, the authors mentioned above found a topological lee non trivial insulating ground state which hosts magnetic states at the open ends of the chain.
However, this system was studied recently using the able e an bo son eyes a shun approach combined with a perturbative re normalization group analysis, revealing an unexpected connection to the hal dane phase at low temperatures.
The Hal dane phase is a paradigm attic example of a strongly interacting topological system.
The results in Ref 21 indicate that 1 D T K I systems might be much more complex and richer than expected with the naive mean field approach, as they are un capable of describing the full complexity of the Hal dane phase, and suggest that they must be reconsidered from the more general perspective of interacting symmetry protected topological phases.