Human motor activity is constrained by the rhythm is city of the 24 hours circadian cycle, including the usual 12 to 15 hours sleep-wake cycle.
However, activity fluctuations also appear over a wide range of temporal scales, from days to a few seconds, resulting from the concatenation of a myriad of individual smaller motor events.
Furthermore, individuals present different propensity to wake full ness and thus to motor activity throughout the circadian cycle.
Are activity fluctuations across temporal scales intrinsically different, or is there a universal description encompassing them?
Is this description also universal across individuals, considering the aforementioned variability?
Here we establish the presence of universality in motor activity fluctuations based on the empirical study of a month of continuous wristwatch accelerometer recordings.
We study the scaling of average fluctuations across temporal scales and determine a universal law characterized by critical exponents alpha, tao and one over mu.
Results are highly reminiscent of the universality described for the average shape of avalanches in systems exhibiting crackling noise.
Beyond its theoretical relevance, the present results can be important for developing objective markers of healthy as well as pathological human motor behavior.
The most obvious period is city of human (as well as animal) motor activity is the circadian twenty four hours modulation.
However, smaller fluctuations are evident on a wide range of temporal scales, from days to a few seconds.
Data shows that the activity evolves in bursts of all sizes and durations which are known to be scale-invariant regardless of the origins and intended consequences of such activity.
Despite the variety of results, the mechanisms underlying the scale-invariant behavior of motor activity remain to be elucidated.
Considering the intermittent nature of human motor activity - comprising brief activity excursions separated by periods of acquiescence - a natural approach would be to study the average shape of the events, following recent results which show that for a large class of processes, the average shape is a scaling function determined mostly by the temporal correlations of the process and its non linear it e.
In the present work, long time series of human motor activity are analyzed, recorded via wristwatch accelerometer, lasting approximately one month.
We establish first the presence of truncated scale invariance in the distribution of the durations of the events as well as in its power spectra density, as described previously in similar type of data.
Afterwards, we uncover the average shape of the bursts of activity and derive the scaling function and its associated exponents.
Finally, we discuss the origins of such scaling and some possible applications.
Despite our current relative ignorance, a possibility that sounds interesting is to determine in children, as they grow, if their behavioral product of parental (and otherwise) education are reflected in the shape of their individual scaling function.
This seems reasonable given the fact that “tireless running around” is almost a definition of early age well-being, which gives way to less hectic activity as children mature.