The main goal of crypt o graph is to obtain a secure method to share information.
This is usually achieved by the encryption of the data, using a shared crypt o graphic key.
The security of the protocol then relies on the secrecy of this key.
The distribution of a secret key is therefore a crucial task for any symmetric key crypt o graphic algorithm.
Classically, this can be achieved using the iffy Hellman method, or some variation based on it.
Quantum Key Distribution protocols exploit the quantum no cloning theorem and the in distinguish ability upon measurement of quantum states belonging to non orthogonal, conjugate bases to accomplish secure distribution of crypt o graphic keys.
These features, combined with the fact that a measurement performed on a quantum system disturbs its original state in some manner, are the fundamental principles in which every Q K D protocol is based on, since they allow for the detection of an eventual eavesdrop per by monitoring errors on the exchanged key: the attacker cannot completely determine the measured quantum state, nor can she he copy it; therefore she he must re send some imperfect copy to the receiver, which may introduce errors in the key.
However, a practical real world Q K D implementation is still a technical challenge that combines concepts and technologies from different areas, such as classical and quantum information theory, quantum optics, electronics and opto electronics.
In this work, we describe a functional autonomous apparatus that implements the B B 84 quantum key distribution protocol where we implement several solutions that contribute to the affordability of a naturally costly piece of equipment.
A critical parameter for the security of any quantum crypt o graph protocol is the Quantum Bit Error Rate, which is obtained after an error estimation from the sifted keys S A and S B — which in theory should be identical — and in the absence of an eavesdrop per they are similar up to experimental errors: a small part of the key is randomly selected and used to obtain the Q B E R, which gives an estimation of the error rate in the whole length of the key.
Once the protocol is running, the Q B E R is routinely monitored by resigning part of the key.
It is assumed that any increase of the Q B E R may be generated by the presence of an eavesdrop per; in such case the whole key is discarded.
Theoretical upper limits have been found for the Q B E R rate that if preserved, unconditional security of the key can be granted by applying classical error correction and privacy amplification protocols to the sifted key.
The first implementation of a quantum crypt o graphic protocol dates from nineteen ninety two.
Since then, the field has rapidly advanced towards sophisticated systems that provide high speed key generation, long distance key distribution, transmitting photons either over optical fiber or open air, using polarization or time bin, or both, for q bit encoding.
Such protocols can be based on single photon pulses or on entangled photon states.
The use of advanced opto electronics and high performance detectors is intensive on any Q K D implementation.
In this work we show that the technologies used in such quantum information algorithms are mature enough to attempt a low cost, yet functional and robust implementation of a quantum key distribution protocol.
We give a detailed explanation of the communication scheme and we release the firm ware code and the circuit schema ticks to build the control units as Supplementary Material.
The following section is devoted to the description of the optical arrangements used on Alice and Bob stages.