Much of the efforts devoted to particle transport were triggered by the famous challenge at very small scales presented by Feynman in nineteen fifty nine: A biological system can be exceedingly small.
Many of the cells are very tiny, but they are very active.
Consider the possibility that we too can make a thing very small, which does what we want — that we can manufacture an object that maneuvers at that level!
At the scales discussed by Feynman, our most usual notions of work, energy and transport seem to break down, including some counter intuitive observations.
As discussed in these notes, these findings are not restricted to small scales since work in the last decades shows similar dynamics arising anytime there is a peculiar interplay of fluctuations, non linear itty and correlations resulting in various classes of fluctuation induced transport.
To visualize the problem, consider an experiment involving, for the sake of discussion, our desk.
Elementary physics explains how all the objects at the desk stay in place and or which forces are needed to displace them.
Now, consider the imaginary case in which we progressively shrink all the objects up to a size of a few nano meters.
It will be noticed that while at the natural scale objects remain steady without any energy expenditure, at the nano meters scale things move around, our nano cell phone which was quiet at the natural scale desk, moves and falls off the nano desk.
This exercise reminds us that at the Brown ian domain, energy would be required even to stay quiet since the basic macro scopic methods of controlling energy flow no longer remain valid.
This non intuitive phenomenon in the function of molecular machines was described by a stu me an as follows: any microscopic machine must either work with Brown ian motion or fight against it, and the former seems to be the preferable choice.
Analogous observations, with some additional caveats due to inert shall forces, can be made if instead of shrinking the mass, we apply an increasingly large external fluctuating field, making now our real size desk to shake around.
This brief review is dedicated to discuss the essence of three elementary results of fluctuation induced transport including the potential shape, the correlations of the fluctuations and the particle interactions and how they work, calling attention to some common lessons that can be borrowed from problems in apparently far apart scales and fields, from cellular biology to technological applications and applied physics.
It should be noted that it is not our intention to cover the extent of the field, this is neither a fair, nor historically correct, exhaustive or updated review of the relevant literature; it only encompasses some interesting results which, in our opinion, warrant further exploration.
The reader will find comprehensive reviews covering specific topics, including those on Brown ian motors, on the more general subject of molecular motors, on a more biological perspective of molecular springs and ratchet in 13, or on a systematic analysis of the space-time symmetry of the equations in 14.
The paper is organized as follows.
The next section revisits pioneer works on these types of problems, carried on a hundred years ago.
Next, we discuss the three fundamental aspects of the problem, including the substrate, the correlations of the fluctuations and the particle interactions.
We start by briefly introducing the different realizations of fluctuation induced transport as popularized two decades ago, i e, in the so called correlation ratchet.
After that, the two elementary ways to break the symmetry are reviewed, either in the temporal or in the spatial aspects of the system, to conclude introducing yet another way to affect transport, the correlations born out of many particle interactions.