Circadian rhythms, oscillations with approximately 24 hour period in many biological processes, are found in nearly all living organisms.
Until the mid eighteen nineties, it was thought that only you carry oat ic organisms had a circadian clock, since it was assumed that an endo genus clock with a period of tao equals 24 h would not be useful to organisms that often divide more rapidly.
However, in nineteen eighty five, several research groups discovered that in cyan o bacteria there was a daily rhythm of nitrogen fixation.
Huang and co-workers were the first to recognize that a strain of Syn echo coccus, a uni cellular cyan o bacterium, had circadian rhythms.
This transformed Syn echo coccus in one of the simplest models for studying the molecular basis of the circadian clock.
The ubiquity of circadian rhythms suggests that they confer an evolutionary advantage.
The adaptive functions of biological clocks are divided into two hypotheses.
The external advantage hypothesis supposes that circadian clocks allow living organisms to anticipate predictable daily changes, such as light dark, so they can schedule their biological functions like feeding and reproduction at appropriate times.
In contrast to this hypothesis, it has been suggested that circadian clocks confer adaptive benefit to organisms through temporal coordination of their internal physiology, intrinsic advantage.
In this case, the circadian clock should be of adaptive value in constant conditions as well as in cyclic environments.
In order to study if circadian clocks provide evolutionary advantages, wolf and co-workers tested the relative fitness under competition between various strains of cyan o bacteria.
They carried out experiments where a wild-type strain (tao equals 25 h) of cyan o bacteria and mutant strains, with shorter (tao equals 22 h) and longer (tao equals 30 h) periods, were subjected to grow in competition with each other under light-dark L D cycles of different period is city.
They found that the strain which won the competition was the one whose free-running period matched closely the period of the L D cycle.
This difference in fitness was observed despite the fact that the growth rates were not significantly different when each strain was grown with no competition.
Also, mutant strains could out compete wild-type strains under continuous light conditions, suggesting that endo genus rhythms are advantageous only in rhythmic environments.
This study provided one of the most convincing evidence so far in support of fitness advantages of synchronization between the endo genus period and the period of environmental cycles Oh yang et al suggested an explanation for fitness differences: this could be due to competition for limiting resources or secretion of diffuse able factors that inhibit the growth of other cyan o bacterial strains.
Russell et al proposed mathematical models in order to test which of these hypotheses was more plausible.
They found that the model based on mutual inhibition was consistent with the experimental observations of 8.
In this model, the mechanism of competition between cells involves the production of a growth inhibitor, which is produced only during the subjective day phase, and that growth occurs only in the light phase.
Each of the experiments and computational simulations mentioned before had equal amounts of light and dark exposure.