The dynamics of the diffusion mediated reaction process has been extensively studied for many years due to its relevance in the description of diverse phenomena in physics, chemistry or biology.
A particularly interesting problem is the calculation of the probability density for the time at which a reaction A plus B to C takes place (Absorption Probability Density)when the displacement of species A or B (or both) is diffuse if.
Other magnitudes, such as time dependent reaction rates or survival probabilities of the reactive, can be derived from the A P D.
Die electric relaxation, capture of ligands after surface diffusion or proteins with active sites deep inside the protein matrix are examples of the application of the diffusion mediated reactions schema.
A random walk schema provides an excellent tool to model diffusion and has been studied for a long time with different alternatives to include the reaction process.
Recently, a new kind of random walk models has been addressed in to include evanescent or mortal random walkers.
In these models, the diffusing particles (reactive) may disappear during their displacement.
Their disappearance may represent, for example, the decay of a laser activated reactive as in studies of flu or s sense quenching by laser photo lysis.
The calculation of chemical reaction rates from a model of immortal diffusing particles in the presence of a trap may be traced to the original contribution of mo much ow ski: a single absorbing sphere surrounded by diffusing particles with an initial uniform concentration.
mo much ow ski model assumes immediate trapping (reaction) upon encounter of the reactive, a great dilution of one of the species (the minority species represented by the sphere) and normal diffusion of the particles with diffusion coefficient D equals D A plus D B, being D A and D B the diffusion coefficients of species A and B, respectively.
Diverse extensions have been proposed to include diffusion in disordered media or to improve the description of short time behavior by considering a finite reaction rate.
Extensions of mo much ow ski model to random walks on lattice have been proposed to consider a finite reaction rate or the modulation of reaction through gating controlled by an independent dynamics.
In these models, the reactive may separate without reaction in each encounter.
We consider here an evanescent Continuous Time Random Walk on a one dimensional lattice with transitions to the nearest neighbors.
We assume a time independent transitions rate lambda for diffusion and e t a for evanescence.
The reaction is included in the model by considering a trap at a fixed position in the lattice.
When a walker arrives at this position, it may be trapped with a rate kappa or it may escape to a neighbor site with transition rate lambda.
The main magnitude to be calculated is the Absorption Probability Density for a walker starting at an arbitrary position on the lattice: the probability density for the time of reaction.
The A P D is analytically calculated in the La place representation and from this magnitude the Reaction Rate and the Survival Probability are calculated.
We have presented a theoretical study of diffusion mediated reactions in an evanescent C T R W on a one dimensional lattice.