The motivation for this work is to find a means of characterizing and differentiating flow quality of relatively free-flowing granular materials.
On the one hand, industry requires methods that can be performed relatively simply and reproduce able.
On the other hand, both industry and academia seek better fundamental understanding of granular rheology via physical mechanisms governing flows; in the case of industry, fundamental understanding should extend to commercially-relevant granular materials.
This paper correlates the onset of jamming with granular characteristics, including particle size distribution and particle shape.
Details are provided on size and shape characterization of commercially-relevant materials.
Characterization of cohesive powder flow has been relatively well established using shear cells to quantify incipient bulk flow, i e, yield loci) of powders and granules.
Flow functions calculated using yield loci can differentiate between strongly cohesive, mildly-cohesive and free-flowing materials; this is highly relevant to bulk storage and handling of powders.
However, shear cell measurements are relatively insensitive in regards to differences among freely-flowing granules.
For applications where the quality of granular dynamic flow is of interest, we need a more sensitive methodology, hence the motivation of the current work.
Various approaches are discussed in the literature, including using rotating drums and im pell er -driven flows to measure granular rheology.
The current work focuses on the onset of jamming in orifice flows to differentiate the quality of otherwise freely flowing granules.
Let us consider jamming in the context of a shear cell analysis.
According to continuum modeling, a cohesion less material measured using a shear cell (i e a yield locus passing through the origin) implies flow through a hopper cone opening of infinitesimal diameter.
At this limit, the continuum model fails because the orifice must be at least as large as the particle diameter.
Further, local packing and jamming effects require the opening to be significantly larger than a single particle.
A theoretical analysis of intrinsic cohesion suggests a boundary layer effect of 3 to 5 particle diameter; as a starting point, this can be taken as a theoretical minimum dimension less orifice size for an otherwise free-flowing granular material.
Experimental studies on the physics of jamming in granular flows report jamming transitions on the basis of a dimension less hopper opening at the onset of the jamming transition, where the dimension less hopper opening is defined by the ratio of the opening size relative to a mono disperse particle size.
The current work is an empirical investigation, seeking to elucidate the effects of both size distribution and shape factors on the jamming probability of free-flowing granules.
The statistical analysis of jamming is a promising approach for characterization of relatively free flowing granular materials.
In this work, we evaluated the effect of dimension less orifice size on the onset of jamming and flow rate.