Granular matter is ubiquitous in nature.
However, due to the complexity of the real particle – particle interactions, the standard approaches of continuum mechanics and thermo dynamics are still limited in providing meaningful descriptions of the states in which these systems can be.
Edwards and Oak shot introduced a tentative approach inspired by the ideas of equilibrium statistical mechanics to formally describe the global properties of a static granular pack.
Since the introduction of this theory, where the entropy of the systems is governed by the spatial disorder of the grains, a number of studies have used it to frame the interpretation of the results of specific experiments.
The most relevant case is the so called Chicago experiment, where a column of grains was repeatedly tapped following an a kneeling type protocol.
The main outcome of this experiment is that a stationary state can be reached, where the mean volume fraction, phi, is a well defined function of the tap amplitude, gamma.
Others have also obtained seemingly reproduce able states without the need of a kneeling.
However, it has been shown recently, by simulation of frictionless grains, that these stationary states are not necessarily ergo dic.
At low gamma, different members of an ensemble of steady states prepared with a well defined protocol may sample a different region of the phase space, as the fluctuations of phi indicate.
In this paper, we demonstrate that not only the volume but also the force moment tense or, sigma, are sampled in a non ergo dic fashion and that ergo diss city seems to be recovered if all particle – particle contacts are lost during each tap.
This sets a clear limit to the range of driving forces able to generate a sequence of configurations for which the Edwards framework can be applied.
Our analysis of the steady states of tapped granular systems indicate that these states are history dependent for tap intensity below a certain threshold.
This is in contradiction with the general assumption that macro scopic time averages — such as the volume fraction — can be recovered when the amplitude of the perturbation applied to the system is tuned back and forth.
The differences between independent realizations become particularly noticeable in the stress distribution.
These findings show that the postulates of the equilibrium statistical thermo dynamics may not be always fulfilled to describe the steady state of static granular systems
see also Ref 19 for a discussion on the Bolts man distribution failure for an analytically solvable model
Focusing on tap intensity that warrant that all contacts are made anew after each tap may allow exploring the available phase space in agreement with the ergo dic hypothesis.
However, gentle perturbations deserve an approach that includes memory effects to suitably describe the states.
In that sense, non equilibrium thermo dynamic approaches may be a suitable alternative.
Further research on such alternative formal ism, the effect of other types of forcing mechanisms, and possible extensions to other complex systems become necessary.