Mister and Missus Dur lee, of number four, Private Drive, were proud to say that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much.
They were the last people you'd expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious, because they just didn't hold with such nonsense.
Mister Dur lee was the director of a firm called Gunning, which made drills.
He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, although he did have a very large mustache.
Missus Dur lee was thin and blonde and had nearly twice the usual amount of neck, which came in very useful as she spent so much of her time craning over garden fences, spying on the neighbors.
The Dur lee had a small son called Dud lee and in their opinion there was no finer boy anywhere.
The Dur lee had everything they wanted, but they also had a secret, and their greatest fear was that somebody would discover it.
They didn't think they could bear it if anyone found out about the Potters.
Missus Potter was Missus Dur lee sister, but they hadn't met for several years; in fact, Missus Dur lee pretended she didn't have a sister, because her sister and her good-for-nothing husband were as un Dur lee ish as it was possible to be.
The Dur lee shuddered to think what the neighbors would say if the Potters arrived in the street.
The Dur lee knew that the Potters had a small son, too, but they had never even seen him.
This boy was another good reason for keeping the Potters away; they didn't want Dud lee mixing with a child like that.
When Mister and Missus Dur lee woke up on the dull, gray Tuesday our story starts, there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to suggest that strange and mysterious things would soon be happening all over the country.
Mister Dur lee hummed as he picked out his most boring tie for work, and Missus Dur lee gossiped away happily as she wrestled a screaming Dud lee into his high chair.
None of them noticed a large, tawny owl flutter past the window.
At half past eight, Mister Dur lee picked up his brief case, pecked Missus Dur lee  on the cheek, and tried to kiss Dud lee good-bye but missed, because Dud lee was now having a tantrum and throwing his cereal at the walls.
Little tyke, chortled Mister Dur lee  as he left the house.
He got into his car and backed out of number four's drive.
It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the first sign of something peculiar -- a cat reading a map.
For a second, Mister Dur lee didn't realize what he had seen -- then he jerked his head around to look again. 