The development of new techniques for the fabrication of smaller and smaller structures has become an objective of great relevance for many fields in science and technology.
This includes semi conductor industry, MEM, biology, micro fluid icks, material science and technology, among the most demanding.
Techniques include optical pith o graph, scanning electron pith o graph, dip-pen patterning, magnet o pith o graph, ion milling, and many others.
Among these techniques, optical pith o graph is the most widely used due to its inherent simplicity, mature development, fast production speed and less stringent ambient requirements.
The far field optical pith o graph, both in projection and scanning, has a first principle limitation in size reduction, the diffraction limit, as light cannot be focused below a size of about half the wave length used.
The main approach to circumvent this problem is to reduce the light wave length and this is the road map traced by the semi conductor industry, now using less than 100 n m sources mostly from synchro tron radiation but also from other new developments such as short wave length lasers. Another approach is to avoid the far field limit by near field approaches, but these techniques suffer from the same drawbacks of other sophisticated scanning methods, slow through put and small scanning areas, unless very sophisticated tricks are developed.
It is now well recognized that the diffraction limit is derived assuming a linear response of the media to the light and this can be a way to circumvent the limitation imposed by diffraction.
This approach has been used in many microscopy techniques and also in optical pith o graph with the main advantage of allowing the construction of three dimensional structures, but the increase in resolution was marginal due to the need of longer optical wave lengths to target the same material transitions with more photons.
In the last decade, new microscopic techniques with super resolution have been developed, that rely on some complex non linear itty, such as stimulated emission depletion.
Recently, several researchers have reported ways to use these techniques using such non linear methods and switching strategies for photo pith o graph.
In this work we present a new concept on how to circumvent the diffraction limit in optical pith o graph by placing the non linear itty not in the light-matter interaction but in the material growth mechanism itself.
The technique uses a dye molecule that initiates the polymerization reaction from an excited state with a very low efficiency.
The mechanism relies on the following distinctive steps: Mixture of the dye molecules and polymer in adequate proportions.
Deposition of a drop of the mixture on a transparent substrate.
Adsorption of a fraction of the dye molecules on the substrate material.
Illumination of the mixture with a focused beam through the substrate at the absorption band of the dye.
Initiation of the polymerization by due to a very low quantum yield energy transfer from the dye to the polymer.
Percolation of the structure growing at the substrate surface.
Deposition of fresh dye molecules from the bulk onto the growing surface.
Photoinitiation of the fresh molecules as the structure grows.