Since the groundbreaking experiments of Yes Colder, Emmanuel Fort and co-workers, significant effort has been devoted to examining the potential and limitations of walking drop lets as a hydro dynamic quantum analog system.
Harris et al demonstrated that the chaotic motion of a walker confined to a circular cavity, or corral, may lead to the emergence of a wave-like statistical behaviour, with the drop lets position histogram being prescribed by the eigen mode of the cavity, reminiscent of the probability distribution of a two-dimensional electron gas confined to a circular quantum corral.
Despite several attempts, a conclusive theoretical demonstration of this robust statistical behaviour remains an open challenge.
The results in the circular corral suggest the possibility of establishing deeper connections between these two markedly different systems.
The Kondo effect is the suppression in the local differential conductance of a metallic substrate due to the presence of magnetic impurities.
In a remarkable recent set of experiments, Man o haram and co-workers exploited this effect to demonstrate that, due to the special resonant properties of elliptical corrals, an individual atom (magnetic impurity) inside a quantum corral can be used to control the relative importance of specific cavity modes, thus allowing for the production of arbitrary super positions of spatial quantum states.
When the magnetic impurity is placed at one focus, a particular elliptical eigen mode with extrema near the foci is preferentially excited, leading to a heightened statistical response in the electron density near the empty focus. Owing to the acute sensitivity of the differential conductance to the statistical response, the result is the projection of a pronounced minimum in the differential conductance from the occupied focus to the empty one, the so called quantum mirage.
Here, we demonstrate that similar mode super position and projection effects can be induced and manipulated in the walking drop let system by using a submerged circular well in the role of the magnetic impurity.
A schematic of the experimental set-up is shown in Fig 1.
An elliptical corral made of stainless steel was filled with 20 c S t silicon oil with density, viscosity and surface tension.
The eccentricity of the ellipse is point 5 and the length of its semi-major axis is 14 point 2 5 m m.
The corral was filled to a height such that a very thin liquid film of depth overlays the border of the cavity, serving as a wave damper.
The bath was mounted on an optical table and vibrated vertically by an electro magnetic shaker with acceleration, where and are the prescribed maximum acceleration and frequency, respectively.
Unless otherwise noted, the driving frequency was fixed at.
The shaker was connected to the bath by a thin steel rod coupled with a linear air bearing to ensure a spatially uniform vibration to within point 1 percent.
The forcing was monitored by two accelerometers, attached to the bath on opposite sides of the drive shaft, and a closed-loop feedback ensured a constant acceleration amplitude to within.
A drop let of the same silicon oil with diameter was generated with a piso electric droplet on demand generator and placed on the vibrating bath with the help of a removable slide.
Provided the driving acceleration was in the appropriate range, the drop could survive indefinitely by bouncing on the surface of the bath.
To ensure that ambient air currents did not affect the results, the corral was sealed with a transparent acrylic lid.
We note that, although previous studies of walking droplets have considered the deep-water regime (for the vibrational frequencies typically examined), we considered a relatively shallow layer in order to exploit variable bottom topography as a means of altering the drop’s statistical behaviour.