The concept of networks of interacting agents has proven, in the last decade, to be a powerful tool in the analysis of complex systems.
Although not new, with the advent of high performance computing, this theoretical construction opened a new door for the statistical physics methodology in the analysis of systems composed by a large number of units that interact in a complicated way.
This allowed to get new insights about the dynamical behavior of systems as complex as biological and social systems.
In addition, it constitutes a basic backbone upon which relatively simple models can be constructed in a bottom-up strategy.
As a modeling tool, the definition of an interaction network for a given system is frequently not unique, depending on the coarse grain level of the approach.
Nevertheless, many topological properties appear to be independent of the definition of the network.
Moreover, some of those properties have emerged in the last years as universal features among systems otherwise considered very different from each other.
In particular, the following properties are characteristic of most biological networks.
Small world ness: all of them exhibit high clustering C c and relatively short path length L, compared with random networks.
L is defined as the minimum number of links needed to connect any pair of nodes in the network and C c is defined as the fraction of connections between topological neighbors of any site.
Scale free degree distribution: the degree distribution P of k, (the probability of a node to be connected to k other ones, presents a broad tail for large values of k.
In some cases, the tail can be approached by a power law P of k k with degree exponents less than 3 for a wide range of scales, while in others, a cutoff appears for some maximum degree k max; in the latter, the degree distribution is generally well described by.
In any case, the networks present a non homogeneous structure, very different from that expected in a random network.
Scaling of the clustering coefficient: in many natural networks, it is observed that the clustering coefficient of a node with degree k follows the scaling law C c k, with beta taking values close to one.
This has been interpreted as an evidence for a modular structure organized in a hierarchical way.
Dis assortative mixing by degree: in most biological networks, highly connected nodes tend to be preferentially connected to nodes with low degree and vice versa.
These properties are observed for a wide range of scales, from the microscopic level of genetic, metabolic and proteins networks to the macroscopic level of communities of living beings, ecological networks.
Such ubiquity suggests the existence of some natural selection process that promotes the development of those particular structures.
One possible constraint general enough to act across such a range of scales is the proper stability of the underlying dynamics.
Growing biological networks involve the coupling of at least two dynamical processes.