The control and manipulation of polarization state of electromagnetic waves is of central interest in the scientific community as it plays a key role in a wide range of applications such as optical sensing, contrast imaging and optical and microwave communications.
The conventional techniques such as optical activity of crystals, the Brewster effect and the Faraday effect can be applied for polarization control; however, the devices based on such conventional techniques are largely handicapped due to their bulky size, narrow band width and incident angle dependent response.
To overcome these limitations, researchers are engaged in designing artificial structures whose electro magnetic properties can be tailored through a proper design of their shape, selection of their material and geometric all arrangement of their constituent elements.
In this regard, the 2 D meta surfaces have been extensively investigated for polarization control due to their obvious advantages over 3 D meta materials such as compact size, ease of fabrication and cost effectiveness.
In the last few years, meta surfaces have been successfully applied for manipulating the polarization of the electromagnetic waves in microwave, tera hertz and visible frequency regimes both in transmission and reflection modes.
The polarization conversion capabilities of the meta surface originate from the anise o trope e and intrinsic or extrinsic sheer ale itty of the unit cell.
Efficient quarter-wave plate designs have been reported for infrared and visible frequency regimes.
Quarter-wave plate design using cut-wire-pair meta materials are proposed for operation at tera hertz frequencies.
Wide band linear-to-circular polarization conversion is demonstrated using a bilayer meta surface for functioning in the microwave regime.
Another important optical component is a beam splitter which plays a crucial role in numerous applications such as interfere om it try, Fourier-transform spectroscopy, optical switching and routing and isolation in optical communication systems.
Conventional beam splitters are severely handicapped due to their large thickness, high power loss and high cost.
A silicon based beam splitter is reported for infrared and tera hertz radiations.
An ultra thin broad band tera hertz beam splitter is designed using low density poly ethylene coated with silver.
A frequency selective surface based beam splitter is reported for operation in microwave frequency regime.
Although separate designs for polarization control and beam-splitting operations are available in the literature; however, meta surfaces with multiple functionalities in a single design are highly desirable.
Such multifunctional metasurfaces not only miniature eyes the size but also reduce the cost and complexity of the overall optical system by replacing multiple optical components through a single component.
In this perspective, in the recent literature, a multi functional meta surface exhibiting both half and quarter wave plate operation has been designed using bilayer anise o tropic meta surface.
A plasma on ick meta surface is theoretically and numerically investigated for both quarter-wave plate and half-mirror, 1 to 1 beam splitter, operation in the visible frequency regime.
However, as the design is based on plasma on ick material, therefore, it could not be re scaled for operation in the microwave regime.
Another single layer meta material based design is theoretically and numerically presented to exhibit both quarter-wave plate and half-mirror operation in the microwave regime.