The fluid dynamics of the flow of two in miss able liquids through a porous medium plays a key role in several engineering processes.
Usually, though the interest is focused on the extraction of one of the liquids, the simultaneous extraction of both liquids is necessary.
This is the case of oil production and of iron making.
The water injection method used in oil production consists of injecting water back into the reservoir, usually to increase pressure and thereby stimulate production.
Normally, just a small percentage of the oil in a reservoir can be extracted, but water injection increases that percentage and maintains the production rate of the reservoir over a longer period of time.
The water displaces the oil from the reservoir and pushes it towards an oil production well.
In the steel industry, this multi phase phenomenon occurs inside the blast furnace hearth, in which the porous medium consists of coke particles.
The slag and pig iron are stratified in the hearth and, periodically, they are drained through a lateral orifice.
The understanding of this flow is crucial for the proper design and management of the blast furnace hearth.
In both examples above, when the liquids are drained, a complex flow takes place in which the interface between the liquids moves, tilts and bends.
Numerical simulation of multiphase flows in porous media is focused mainly in upscaling methods, aimed at solving for large scale features of interest in such a way as to model the effect of the small scale features.
Other authors use the numerical methods to model the complex multiphase flow that takes place at the pore scale.
In this work, we numerically study the macro scopic behavior of the interface between two in miss able liquids flowing through a porous medium when they are drained through an opening.
The effect of gravity on this phenomenon is considered.
We define four non dimensional parameters that rule the fluid dynamic all problem and, by means of a numerical parametric analysis, an equation to predict the interface tilt in the vicinity of the orifice is developed.
The equation is verified through several numerical cases where the parameters are varied simultaneously and arbitrarily.
In addition, the qualitative influence of each non-dimensional parameter on the interface shape is reported.
A numerical study of the macro scopic interface behavior between two in miss able liquids flowing through a porous medium, when they are drained through an opening, has been reported.
Four non dimensional parameters that rule the fluid dynamic all problem were identified.
Thereby, a numerical para metric analysis was developed where the qualitative observation of the resulting interface profiles contributes to the understanding of the effect of each parameter.