Models of disease propagation are widely used to provide a stylized picture of the basic mechanisms at work during epidemic outbreaks and infection spreading.
Within interdisciplinary physics, they have the additional interest of being closely related to the mathematical representation of such diverse phenomena as fire propagation, signal transmission in neuronal axons, and oscillatory chemical reactions.
Because this kind of model describes the joint dynamics of large populations of interacting active elements or agents, its most interesting outcome is the emergence of self-organization.
The appearance of endemic states, with a stable finite portion of the population actively transmitting an infection, is a typical form of self-organization in epidemiological models.
Occurrence of self-organized collective behavior has, however, the sine qua non condition that information about the individual state of agents must be exchanged between each other.
In turn, this requires the interaction pattern between agents not to be disconnected.
Fulfilment of such requirement is usually assumed to be granted.
However, it is not difficult to think of simple scenarios where it is not guaranteed.
In the specific context of epidemics, for instance, a sexually transmitted infection never propagates in a population where sexual partnership is confined within stable couples or small groups.
In this paper, we consider an S I R (susceptible infectious recovered) epidemiological model in a monogamous population where, at any instant, each agent has exactly one partner or neighbor.
The population is thus divided into couples, and is therefore highly disconnected.
However, couples can occasionally break up and their members can then be exchanged with those of other broken couples.
As was recently demonstrated for S I S models, this process of couple recombination can compensate to a certain extent the instantaneous lack of connectivity of the population’s interaction pattern, and possibly allow for the propagation of the otherwise confined disease.
Our main aim here is to characterize this interplay between recombination and propagation for S I R epidemics.
In the next section, we review the S I R model and its mean field dynamics.
Analytical results are then provided for recombining monogamous populations in the limits of zero and infinitely large recombination rate, while the case of intermediate rates is studied numerically.
Attention is focused on the disease incidence, namely, the portion of the population that has been infectious sometime during the epidemic process, and its dependence on the disease infectivity and the recombination rates, as well as on the initial number of infectious agents.
Our results are inscribed in the broader context of epidemics propagation on populations with evolving interaction patterns.
We have studied the dynamics of S I R epidemics in a population where, at any time, each agent forms a couple with exactly one neighbor, but neighbors are randomly exchanged at a fixed rate.
As it had already been shown for the S I S epidemiological model, this recombination of couples can, to some degree, compensate the high disconnection of the instantaneous interaction pattern, and thus allow for the propagation of the disease over a finite portion of the population.