The effects on phase transition of confined fluids in a slit-like pore have been studied by simulation and different theories.
In a previous work, we constructed a generalized van der Waals equation for a fluid confined in a nano pore.
The shift of the critical parameters was in good agreement with lattice model and numerical simulation results, and the predicted critical temperature remarkably reproduced the experiment.
In that work, we concluded that the confined van der Waals fluid theory seemed to work better than the bulk one, maybe due to the fact that the higher virial contributions not considered in both theories were less important in the confined fluid than in the bulk.
A similar treatment was used previously by Shoan and These ler.
Following that line of reasoning, here we study a simple fluid confined between two infinite parallel hard walls, slit pore.
The walls are at a distance L apart.
To study the confined fluid, we propose a multilayer model: the fluid is distributed in n thin layers, one beside the other.
Each layer has a uniform density, and can be observed as a non-autonomous phase.
A particle in a given layer interacts with its neighbors inside the layer, and with every particle in the other layers.
De fay et al have shown that, in a liquid gas interface, the deviation from the Gibbs adsorption equation becomes practically negligible in the case of a two layer model, and that as the number of transition layers grows, the multilayer model becomes perfectly consistent with the Gibbs equation.
The van der Waals-like approximations made in developing this multilayer model theory limit its validity to the low density regime.
The application of a simple theory, with van der Waals-like approximations to the Helmholtz energy, to a particular model of spatial distribution makes it possible to obtain analytical expressions for the thermo dynamic quantities.
The study of a confined fluid in a slit pore geometry with a multilayer approximation produces good results when compared with Monte Carlo simulations at low densities.
The agreement with a particular experiment on nitrogen confined in a graphite slit pore is remarkable, even though an excess quantity is in study.
It may be concluded that the confinement reduces the importance that higher virial contributions have on the equation of the state of the confined fluid.
Classical density functional theory can also be applied to study the slit pore geometry, with very good agreement with experiments and simulations.
Though the theoretical work developed in these pages is not a competitor of density functional theory, it has the advantages of having analytical expressions, and the possibility of easily introducing two immiscible components: for instance one or two layer lubricants wetting the walls and a gas or a liquid filling the rest of layers forming the capillary volume.
A simple Leonard – Jones fluid confined in a slit nano pore with hard walls is studied on the basis of a multi layer structured model.
Each layer is homogeneous and parallel to the walls of the pore.