Cells can generate temporal patterns of activity by means of genetic oscillations.
Genetic oscillations are biochemical oscillations in the levels of gene products.
They can be produced by negative feedback regulation of gene expression, in which a gene product inhibits its own production directly or indirectly.
Such auto inhibition is often performed by transcriptional repressors, proteins or protein complexes that bind the promoter of a gene and inhibit the transcription of new m R N A molecules, see Fig 1.
A theoretical description of biochemical oscillations requires a delayed negative feedback, together with sufficient non linearity and a balance of the timescales of the different processes involved.
Delays may occur naturally in transcriptional regulation, since the assembly of gene products involves intermediate steps.
Non linearity refers to the presence of non linear terms in the equations describing the dynamics.
Such non linear terms may occur in the equations due to the presence of cooperative biochemical processes, where cooperativity is understood as a phenomenon in which several components act together to orchestrate some collective behavior.
Although some processes giving rise to non linear terms are known, in general it is still an open question how non linearity is built into genetic oscillators.
A compelling model system for genetic oscillations is the vertebrate segmentation clock.
This is a tissue level pattern generator that controls the formation of vertebrate segments during embryonic development.
The spatio temporal patterns generated by the segmentation clock are thought to be initiated by a genetic oscillator at the single cell level.
In this genetic oscillator, negative feedback is provided by genes of the Her family, which code proteins that form dimers and can act as transcriptional repressors.
The time taken from transcription, translation and splicing may introduce the necessary feedback delays in zebra fish and mouse.
One source of non linearity in the segmentation clock oscillator is the dimerization of gene products that bind the promoter of cyclic genes.
However, this may be insufficient to generate the observed oscillations in the levels of gene products.
One way to increase non linearity would be cooperative binding of repressors to regulatory binding sites at the promoter.
Cooperative binding to multiple binding sites can make the negative feedback steeper.
A similar effect occurs with ultrasensitivity in phosphorylation cascades.
The presence of clusters of binding sites for transcription factors may be a common motif in gene regulation, and cooperativity in transcription factor binding has been reported for some systems.