Environmental rhythms strongly infuence the presence, diversity and dispersal of organisms in ecosystems, where cyclical patterns are a fundamental part of natural systems.
In the marine environment, synchronizing with environmental patterns in tides, temperature and season helps increase a species chance of survival.
One such adaptation and well-known phenomenon is the spawning aggregation of fishes, defined as any temporary aggregation formed by fishes that have migrated for the specifc purpose of spawning.
Globally, 164 species of reef fishes across 26 families have been identifed as forming spawning aggregations.
The commencement of spawning in fsh has been shown to be infuenced by a combination of environmental cues, notably water temperature, tidal regimes, and lunar phase.
These may act sin er gist ick ally or antagonistic ally to stimulate changes in behaviour.
Fish spawning behaviour is also strongly infuenced by circadian and circa lunar rhythms, where solar and lunar photo periods are key triggers of gonad all activation and diurnal breeding in many tropical reef species.
Several species that form spawning aggregations produce sound during mating.
Sound has been shown to play an important role in such aggregations as a species specific recognition signal, orientation mechanism, and stimulant of sexual activity and synchronous reproductive eforts of the entire colony, aggregation.
When numerous fish collectively produce sound they can raise the ambient noise levels signifcantly, producing what has been termed a chorus.
A fish chorus is defined as the continuous sound produced by vocalising fish that signifcantly raises the background noise level in a characteristic frequency band by for an extended period.
Australian coral reefs have been shown to emanate a wealth of biological sounds, in particular, fish choruses.
Around Lizard Island in the Great Barrier Reef, six continuous fsh choruses were recently identifed across six feld sites.
Emitting acoustic energy between 50 and 2000 Hertz, several of these choruses exhibited distinct temporal patterns, where strong diurnal activity was present in five of the six choruses.
Four of the six choruses were predominantly detected at distinct times during hours of darkness, while two were also found during the day.
Field sites in the north and south of the island displayed consistently higher chorus diversity and levels than other sites, suggesting that particular locations are important aggregation areas for son if er us fish.
Tree of these choruses were previously undocumented and could hold valuable information on the source presence, abundance and dispersal patterns.
The aim of this study was to determine the period is cities of selected fish choruses and investigate likely environmental drivers around Lizard Island in order to: Elaborate potential areas of essential fish habitat, Better understand existing spatio-temporal patterns, and Provide a means of comparison with future monitoring, particularly post environmental change or increases in anthropogenic pressure.
The fish choruses detected in long-term recordings around Lizard Island have shown various levels of spatial delineation and distinct temporal patterns.
Three of these choruses have previously been speculated to originate from big eye fish.