In the last decades, a lot of effort was devoted to develop a mathematical model for voice production.
The first steps were made by Ish e za ka and Flanagan, approximating each vocal fold by two coupled oscillators, which provide the basis of the well known two-mass model.
This simple model reproduces many essential features of the voice production, like the onset of self sustained oscillation of the folds and the shape of the glottal pulses.
Early analytical treatments were restricted to small amplitude oscillations, allowing a dimensional reduction of the problem.
In particular, a two dimensional approximation known as the flapping model was widely adopted by the scientific community, based on the assumption of a transversal wave propagating along the vocal folds.
Moreover, this model was also used to successfully explain most of the features present in birdsong.
Faithful modeling of the vocal folds has recently found new challenges: realistic articulatory speech synthesis, diagnosis of pathological behavior of the folds and bioprosthetic applications.
Within this framework, the 4-dimensional two-mass model was revisited and modified.
Two main improvements are worth noting: a realistic description of the vocal fold collision and an accurate fluid mechanical description of the glottal flow, allowing a proper treatment of the hydro dynamical force acting on the folds.
In this work, we revisit the two mass model developed by Lucero and Koenig.
This choice represents a good compromise between mathematical simplicity and diversity of physical phenomena acting on the vocal folds, including the main mechanical and fluid effects that are partially found in other models.
It was also successfully used to reproduce experimental temporal patterns of glottal airflow.
Here, we extend the analytical study of this system: we present a bifurcation diagram, explore the dynamical aspects of the oscillations at the onset and normal phonation and study the iso frequency curves of the model.
This work is organized as follows: in the second section, we describe the model.
In the third section, we present the bifurcation diagram, compare our solutions with those of the flapping model approximation and analyze the iso frecuency curves.
In the fourth and last section, we discuss our results.
In this paper, we have analyzed a complete twomass model of the vocal folds integrating collisions, non linear restitution and dissipative forces for the tissue and jets and viscous losses of the air-stream.
In a framework of growing interest for detailed modeling of voice production, the aspects studied here contribute to understanding the role of the different physical terms in different dynamical behaviors.
We calculated the bifurcation diagram, focusing in two regimes: the oscillation onset and normal phonation.
Near the parameters of normal phonation, a saddle repulsor bifurcation takes place that modifies the shape of the limit cycle, contributing to the spectral richness of the glottal flow, which is central to the production of voiced sounds.