The voice is a multidimensional phenomenon that must be evaluated using special tools for determining acoustic parameters.
These parameters are: the pitch or voice tone, the timbre, considered as the personality of the voice that is particular of each person (determined by fundamental frequency, its harmonics and formants) and the degree of hoarseness.
During sustained vibration, the vocal fold will exhibit variations of fundamental frequency and amplitude; these phenomena are called frequency perturbation (jitter) and amplitude perturbation (shimmer).
They reflect fluctuations in tension and biochemical characteristics of the vocal folds, as well as variation in their neural control and the physiological properties of the individuals voices.
The acoustic analysis is one of the major advances in the study of voice, increasing the accuracy of diagnosis in this area. Normal values as standards are important and necessary to guide voice professionals.
There are not many studies performed for the Latin languages.
However, there are several of them for the English language, such as those in Ref 4 to 8.
In the same way, the software used for voice therapy is in general designed for other languages than Spanish.
A comparison has been made, though, between the two vowel systems of English and Spanish (the variation spoken in Madrid, Spain), which triggered relatively large versus small vowel inventories.
That is the reason why we consider it is very important and necessary to produce more results for the Spanish speaking population.
We analyzed 72 audio files of female and male voices from an Argentinian Spanish speaking population to obtain the acoustical parameters using the Praat program.
Our data were compared to Brad low, Hold and Casa do Morente et al.
The pitches measured were lower than expected and the First formant of the a and u vowels is higher than the published data.
Additionally, the Harmonic to Noise Ratio H N R values discriminated per vowel are presented.
The objective of this research was to measure acoustical properties of the Spanish voices of Argentinian speakers.
These voice parameters are generally assessed subjectively by several authors.
This form of perceptual analysis of voice has significant limitations and the subtle interpretative judgments of verbal classifications may not be accurate.
The differences we found in the parameters of the vowels measured in a group of people from Argentina compared to the parameters obtained from Spanish speaking people living in Spain suggests the region of study has an important influence in the results, as expected.
This kind of studies are very useful to compare the properties of normal and pathological voices of people from different regions.
It is necessary to test the same parameters in female Spanish speakers as well.