The remarkable regularities observed in many human social phenomena — which, in spite of the disparate behavior of individual human beings, emerge as a consequence of their interactions — have since long attracted the attention of physicists and applied mathematicians.
Collective manifestations of human behavior have been mathematically modeled in a variety of socioeconomic processes, such as opinion formation, decision making, resource allocation, cultural and linguistic evolution, among many others, often using the tools provided by statistical physics.
The stylized nature of these models emphasizes the identification of the generic mechanisms at work in human interactions, as well as the detection of broadly significant features in their macroscopic outcomes.
They provide the key to a deep insight into the common elements that underlie those processes.
Models of opinion formation constitute a central paradigm in the mathematical description of social processes from the viewpoint of statistical physics.
Starting in the seventies and eighties, much work — which we cannot aim at inventorying here, but which has been comprehensibly reviewed in recent literature, has exploited the formal resemblance between opinion spreading and spin dynamics in order to apply well-developed statistical techniques to the analysis of such models.
The key mechanism driving most agent-based models of opinion formation is imitation.
For instance, in the voter model — to which we refer several times in the present paper — the basic interaction event consists in an agent copying the opinion of another agent chosen at random from a specified neighborhood.
At any given time, the opinion of each agent adopts one of two values, typically denoted as 1.
The voter model can be exactly solved for populations of agents distributed over regular hyper cubic arrays in any dimension.
For infinitely large populations, it is characterized by the conservation of the average opinion.
In one dimension, a finite population always reaches an absorbing state of full collective consensus, all agents sharing the same opinion.
The probability of final consensus on either opinion coincides with the initial fraction of agents with that opinion, and the time needed to reach the absorbing state is of the order of the population size squared.
In this paper, we present an introductory analysis of a class of models where opinion dynamics is driven by the spreading of consensus and disagreement, rather than by the dissemination of individual opinions.
The basic concept behind these models is that agreement of individual opinions in a localized portion of the population may promote the emergence of consensus in the neighborhood while, in contrast, local disagreement may inhibit the growth of, or even decrease, the degree of consensus in the surrounding region.
In real social systems, the mechanism of consensus and disagreement spreading should be complementary to the direct transmission of opinions between individual agents.
In our models, however, we disregard the latter to focus on the dynamical effects of the former.
Since the degree of consensus can only be defined for two or more agents, the spreading of consensus and disagreement engages groups of agents rather than individuals.
Such groups are, thus, the elementary entities involved in the social interactions.
We stress that several other social phenomena — related, notably, to decision making and resource allocation — are also based on group interactions that cannot be reduced to two-agent events.