Granular materials are ubiquitous either in nature — desert dunes, beach sand, soil, etc — or in industrial processes as mineral extraction and processing, or food, construction and pharmaceutical industries.
In fact, any particulate matter made of macroscopic solid elements can be classified as granular material.
The vast phenomenology exhibited by these systems combined with an incomplete understanding about the microscopic physical mechanisms responsible for the macroscopic behavior of these materials have motivated the increasing interest of the physics community in the past years.
Although materials of this class are not sensitive to thermal fluctuations, they can be found at gas, liquid or solid phases.
The transition between solid and liquid phases in granular matter, which is commonly referred to as jamming un jamming transition, has been extensively studied from both theoretical and experimental perspectives.
Currently, a great effort is being made to understand the nature of this transition, which is still a subject of debate.
The jamming unjamming transition is not a specific property of granular matter, being observed in many kinds of materials, such as foams, emulsions, colloids, gels, and also in usual molecular liquids — glass transition.
Liu and Nagel proposed a general phase diagram as an attempt to unify the several approaches to study jamming un jamming in disordered materials.
This work has motivated several theoretical, experimental and numerical investigations, but a comprehensive understanding of this transition is still lacking.
O Horn et al have performed numerical simulations of granular materials approaching to jamming in two and three dimensions.
They have explored the packing fraction axis of the general phase diagram proposed by Liu and Nigel and have demonstrated, by means of finite-size analysis, the existence of a unique critical point in which the system jams in the thermo dynamic limit.
The authors have also shown some evidence that this point is an ordinary critical point, indicating that the jamming transition would be a second order phase transition.
These results were corroborated later by experiments and by simulations.
In Ref 20, the authors have revealed evidence of self-organized criticality by measuring the internal avalanches resulting from the opening of an orifice at the bottom of granular piles.
Experimental investigation of the jamming transition in granular materials under gravitational field has been conducted in a variety of ways, addressing the role of many parameters, like the grain shape, the friction coefficient, and the system geometry.
However, a common feature of all these approaches is the analysis of the granular flow through bottlenecks.
The jamming of three-dimensional piles seems to be settled after the work of Zuri gel et al.
They have demonstrated experimentally, for piles composed of different kinds of grains, the divergence on the mean internal avalanche size.
It means that, as the outlet size approaches a critical value, the internal avalanche increases without limit and a permanent flow is established.
This critical outlet is insensitive to the density, stiffness and roughness of the grains, but shows a significant dependence on the grain shape.